Specify room version 10: `knock_restricted` and int power levels (#1099)
matrix-org/matrix-spec: content/rooms/fragments/v1-stringy-power-levels.md

---
toc_hide: true
---

##### Power levels accepted as strings

> In order to maintain backwards compatibility with early implementations,
> power levels can optionally be represented in string format instead of
> integer format. A homeserver must be prepared to deal with this by parsing
> the power level from a string. In these cases, the following formatting of the
> power level string is allowed:

Author: formatting:

```suggestion
In order to maintain backwards compatibility with early implementations,
each of the integer-valued properties within 
[`m.room.power_levels`](/client-server-api#mroompower_levels) events can
be encoded as strings instead of integers. This includes the nested values
within the `events`, `notifications` and `users` properties.

For example, the following is a valid `m.room.power_levels` event in this room version:

```json
{
  "content": {
    "ban": "50",
    "events": {
      "m.room.power_levels": "100"
    },
    "events_default": "0",
    "state_default": "50",
    "users": {
      "@example:localhost": "100"
    },
    "users_default": "0"
  },
  "origin_server_ts": 1432735824653,
  "room_id": "!jEsUZKDJdhlrceRyVU:example.org",
  "sender": "@example:example.org",
  "state_key": "",
  "type": "m.room.power_levels"
}
```

When the value is an integer, they must be the following format:
```

> power level string is allowed:

Author: ugh, github.

* a single Base10 integer, no float values or decimal points, optionally with
  any number of leading zeroes (`"100"`, `"000100"`);
* optionally with any number of leading or trailing whitespace characters (`" 100 "`,
  `" 00100 "`);
* optionally prefixed with a single `-` or `+` character before the integer
  but after leading whitespace padding (`" +100 "`, `" -100 "`, `"+100"`,
  `"-100"`).

{{% boxes/note %}}
The integer represented by the string must still be within the `[-2^53, 2^53)`
range accepted by normal, non-string, power level values.

> {{% /boxes/note %}}

Reviewer: well, the problem here is that Synapse doesn't actually reject such events. Indeed, it doesn't even reject `int`s greater than 2^53 for room versions 1-5, so this text feels particularly misleading here.

This is a spec change, and I find it hard to justify without either an MSC or evidence that it's always been this way.

within the `events`, `notifications` and `users` properties.
For example, the following is a valid `m.room.power_levels` event in this room version:

```json
{
  "content": {
    "ban": "50",
    "events": {
      "m.room.power_levels": "100"
    },
    "events_default": "0",
    "state_default": "50",
    "users": {
      "@example:localhost": "100"
    },
    "users_default": "0"
  },
  "origin_server_ts": 1432735824653,
  "room_id": "!jEsUZKDJdhlrceRyVU:example.org",
  "sender": "@example:example.org",
  "state_key": "",
  "type": "m.room.power_levels"
}
```

When the value is representative of an integer, they must be the following format:

* a single base 10 integer, no float values or decimal points, optionally with
  any number of leading zeroes (`"100"`, `"000100"`);
* optionally prefixed with a single `-` or `+` character before the integer (`"+100"`,
  `"-100"`).
* optionally with any number of leading or trailing whitespace characters (`" 100 "`,
  `" 00100 "`, `" +100 "`, `" -100 "`);

{{% boxes/note %}}
The integer represented by the string must still be within the `[-(2**53)+1, (2**53)-1]`
range accepted by normal, non-string, power level values.

> {{% /boxes/note %}}

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-spec/pull/1099#discussion_r891342947: I don't think we can justify this.

Author: right, sorry, meant to remove this. Good catch.
